Add user agent filter to public documentation (#408)
ngrok/ngrok-docs: docs/cloud-edge/modules/user-agent-filter.md

# User Agent Filter

---

## Overview

> The User Agent Filter module allows you to `allow` or `deny` traffic based on the `User-Agent` header. You can define `allow` and `deny` regular expression rules that apply to the incoming `User-Agent` header.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the User Agent Filter module you can allow or deny traffic through regular expression-based rules that are matched against the incoming user-agent header, which contains information about the requesting browser or application, including its name, version, and operating system.

Since rules are processed at the ngrok Cloud Edge, you can bolster your application’s security by blocking unwanted or unauthorized requests from malicious actors before it ever reaches your network.
```

## Quickstart

### Agent CLI

```bash

> ngrok http 80 --ua-filter-allow="(foo/(\d)+.(\d)+)","(bar/(\d)+.(\d)+)" --ua-filter-deny="(buz/(\d)+.(\d)+)"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ngrok http 80 \
  --ua-filter-allow="(foo/(\d)+.(\d)+)","(bar/(\d)+.(\d)+)" \
  --ua-filter-deny="(buz/(\d)+.(\d)+)"
```

```

### Agent Configuration File

```yaml
tunnels:
 example:
   proto: https
   addr: 80
   ua_filter_allow: ["(foo/(\d)+.(\d)+)", "(bar/(\d)+.(\d)+)"]
   ua_filter_deny: ["(buzz/(\d)+.(\d)+)"]

> ```

Reviewer: The spaces in this example seem off? `example` has one space in front, while `proto` has two

### Go SDK

```go
import (
	"context"
	"net"

	"golang.ngrok.com/ngrok"
	"golang.ngrok.com/ngrok/config"
)

func listenUserAgentFIlter(ctx context.Context) net.Listener {
	listener, _ := ngrok.Listen(ctx,
		config.HTTPEndpoint(
			config.WithUserAgentFilter( []string{`(foo)/(\d)+.(\d)+`}, []string{`bar/(\d)+.(\d)+`}),
		),
		ngrok.WithAuthtokenFromEnv(),
	)
	return listener
}
```

## Behavior

### Rule Evaluation

On request, the User Agent Filter module will check the incoming `User-Agent` header value against the list of defined allow and deny regular expression rules.

> Requests with no `User-Agent` header will be denied by deafult. If you wish to accept these you can add a allow rule for empty strings: `^$`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Requests without the `User-Agent` header will be denied by default. To allow these requests, you can add an `allow` rule for empty strings: `^$`
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: I think this makes the prettier mad

Author: I ran format after remove the newline and it re-adds it

Reviewer: I tried to make the others a list, so was trying to remove the line between them:

- Requests with
- Requests without

> Requests with multiple `User-Agent` headers will only match the first header."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Requests with multiple `User-Agent` headers will only match the first header.
```

### Match Behavior

> Requests are allowed if they match an `allow` rule OR they match `no` deny rules. Requests matching deny rules are rejected with a 403 Forbidden error.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Requests are allowed if they match an `allow` rule or no matching `deny` rules. Requests that match `deny` rules are rejected with a `403 Forbidden` error.
```

You can override `deny` rules by defining an `allow` rule that is more specific, for instance blocking all Google bots except Google Images:

```json
{
	"allow": ["(?i)google-images"]
	"deny": ["(?i)google", "[Bb]ing"]
}
```

## Reference

### Configuration

###### **Agent Configuration**

| Parameter                   | Description                                                                  |
| --------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **User Agent Filter Allow** | A set of regular expressions used to match User-Agents that will be allowed. |

> | **User Agent Filter Deny**  | A set of regular expressions used to match User-Agents that will be denied,  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **User Agent Filter Deny**  | A set of regular expressions used to match User-Agents that will be denied.  |
```

```

### SSH

```bash
ssh -R 443:localhost:80 connect.ngrok-agent.com http \
 --ua-filter-allow="(foo/(\d)+.(\d)+)" \
 --ua-filter-deny="(bar/(\d)+.(\d)+)" \
```

### Agent Configuration File

```yaml
tunnels:
 example:
   proto: https
   addr: 80
   ua_filter_allow: ["(foo/(\d)+.(\d)+)", "(bar/(\d)+.(\d)+)"]
   ua_filter_deny: ["(buzz/(\d)+.(\d)+)"]
```

### Go SDK

```go
import (
	"context"
	"net"

	"golang.ngrok.com/ngrok"
	"golang.ngrok.com/ngrok/config"
)

func listenUserAgentFIlter(ctx context.Context) net.Listener {
	listener, _ := ngrok.Listen(ctx,
		config.HTTPEndpoint(
			config.WithUserAgentFilter( []string{"(foo)/(\d)+.(\d)+"}, []string{"bar/(\d)+.(\d)+"}),
		),
		ngrok.WithAuthtokenFromEnv(),
	)
	return listener
}
```

## Behavior

### Rule Evaluation

On request, the User Agent Filter module will check the incoming `user-agent` header value against the list of defined allow and deny regular expression rules.

Requests with no `user-agent` header specified will still be matched against the list of defined rules. If you wish to reject these you can add a deny rule for empty strings: `^$`

> Requests with multiple `user-agent` headers will be matched as a single value.

Reviewer 2: what does this mean "will be matched as a single value"?

Author: Let say we send this request 
```
curl --location https://mo.ngrok.io.lan \                                                                                                                                                                                                 
--header 'Content-Type: text/plain' \
--header 'User-Agent: foo/1.1' \
--header 'User-Agent: bar/1.1' \
--header 'User-Agent: buz/1.1' \
--data 'https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=djyTG19Achg' -k -v
```
with a tunnel configured with
```
--ua-filter-allow="(foo/(\d)+.(\d)+)"
--ua-filter-deny="(bar/(\d)+.(\d)+)"
```
It will only evaluate the first user agent header

### Match Behavior

> Requests are allowed if they match an allow rule OR they match no deny rules. Requests matching deny rules are rejected with a 403 Forbidden error.

Reviewer 2: >allowed if they match an allow rule OR they match no deny rules

So this implies to me that you could have allow rules configured, a request comes in with a user-agent that does _not_ match the allow rules, but it still gets allowed because there weren't any deny rules that matched. What is the actual behavior there?

Author: that is correct

Reviewer 2: hmmm so is there ever a benefit to setting up only allow rules?

Author: you would be correct, allow would be only used to 1.) override a specific user agent if you using a ambiguous deny regex  2.) override a user agent the we internally deny 3.) allow for empty user agents

> You can override `deny` rules by defining an `allow` rule that is more specific, for instance blocking all Google bots except Google Images:

Reviewer 2: Is there intended to be an example below here?

## Reference

### Configuration

###### **Agent Configuration**

| Parameter                   | Description                                                   |
| --------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **User Agent Filter Allow** | A set of regular expressions used to match allow User-Agents. |

> | **User Agent Filter Deny**  | A set of regular expressions used to match deny User-Agents.  |

Reviewer 2: nit:
>used to match deny User-Agents
reads a bit weird to me, maybe something like 
"A set of regular expressions used to match User-Agents that will be denied"

# User Agent Filter

---

## Overview

> With the User Agent Filter module you can allow or deny traffic through regular expression-based rules that are matched against the incoming user-agent header, which contains information about the requesting browser or application, including its name, version, and operating system.

Reviewer 3: This is a long sentence to lead with. Suggesting:

With the User Agent Filter module, you can allow or deny traffic through regular expression-based rules that are matched against the incoming `User-Agent` header. The `User-Agent` header contains information about the requesting browser or application, including its name, version, and operating system.

## Quickstart

### Agent CLI

```bash
ngrok http 80 \
  --ua-filter-allow="(foo/(\d)+.(\d)+)","(bar/(\d)+.(\d)+)" \
  --ua-filter-deny="(buz/(\d)+.(\d)+)"
```

### Agent Configuration File

```yaml
tunnels:
  example:
    proto: http
    addr: 80
    ua_filter_allow: ["(foo/(\d)+.(\d)+)", "(bar/(\d)+.(\d)+)"]
    ua_filter_deny: ["(buzz/(\d)+.(\d)+)"]
```

### Go SDK

```go
import (
	"context"
	"net"

	"golang.ngrok.com/ngrok"
	"golang.ngrok.com/ngrok/config"
)

func listenUserAgentFIlter(ctx context.Context) net.Listener {
	listener, _ := ngrok.Listen(ctx,
		config.HTTPEndpoint(
			config.WithUserAgentFilter([]string{`(foo)/(\d)+.(\d)+`}, []string{`bar/(\d)+.(\d)+`}),
		),
		ngrok.WithAuthtokenFromEnv(),
	)
	return listener
}
```

## Behavior

### Rule Evaluation

On request, the User Agent Filter module will check the incoming `User-Agent` header value against the list of defined allow and deny regular expression rules.

- Requests without the `User-Agent` header will be denied by default. To allow these requests, you can add an `allow` rule for empty strings: `^$`
- Requests with multiple `User-Agent` headers will only match the first header.

### Match Behavior

> Requests are allowed if they match an `allow` rule or no matching `deny` rules. Requests that match `deny` rules are rejected with a `403 Forbidden` error.

Reviewer 3: > Requests are allowed if they match an `allow` rule or no matching `deny` rules.

This sentence doesn't quite make sense. Do we want to say:

Requests are allowed if they match any `allow` rule or fail to match all `deny` rules.

# User Agent Filter

---

## Overview

With the User Agent Filter module you can allow or deny traffic through regular expression-based rules that are matched against the incoming user-agent header, which contains information about the requesting browser or application, including its name, version, and operating system.

Since rules are processed at the ngrok Cloud Edge, you can bolster your application’s security by blocking unwanted or unauthorized requests from known bots and malicious actors before it ever reaches your network.

## Quickstart

### Agent CLI

```bash
ngrok http 80 \
  --ua-filter-allow="(foo/(\d)+.(\d)+)","(bar/(\d)+.(\d)+)" \
  --ua-filter-deny="(buz/(\d)+.(\d)+)"
```

### Agent Configuration File

```yaml
tunnels:
  example:
    proto: http
    addr: 80
    ua_filter_allow: ["(foo/(\d)+.(\d)+)", "(bar/(\d)+.(\d)+)"]
    ua_filter_deny: ["(buzz/(\d)+.(\d)+)"]
```

### Go SDK

```go
import (
	"context"
	"net"

	"golang.ngrok.com/ngrok"
	"golang.ngrok.com/ngrok/config"
)

func listenUserAgentFIlter(ctx context.Context) net.Listener {
	listener, _ := ngrok.Listen(ctx,
		config.HTTPEndpoint(

> 			config.WithUserAgentFilter( []string{`(foo)/(\d)+.(\d)+`}, []string{`bar/(\d)+.(\d)+`}),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			config.WithUserAgentFilter([]string{`(foo)/(\d)+.(\d)+`}, []string{`bar/(\d)+.(\d)+`}),
```

# User Agent Filter

---

## Overview

> User Agent Filter module allows you to allow or deny traffic based on the user-agent request header. You can define allow and deny regular expression rules that apply to the incoming user-agent request header.

Reviewer 3: User Agent Filter module --> The User Agent Filter module

I suggest keeping the markup consistent throughout the document:
define allow and deny --> define `allow` and `deny`

```bash
ngrok http 80 --ua-filter-allow="(foo/(\d)+.(\d)+)","(bar/(\d)+.(\d)+)" --ua-filter-deny="(buz/(\d)+.(\d)+)"
```

### SSH

```bash
ssh -R 443:localhost:80 connect.ngrok-agent.com http \
 --ua-filter-allow="(foo/(\d)+.(\d)+)" \
 --ua-filter-deny="(bar/(\d)+.(\d)+)" \
```

### Agent Configuration File

```yaml
tunnels:
 example:
   proto: https
   addr: 80
   ua_filter_allow: ["(foo/(\d)+.(\d)+)", "(bar/(\d)+.(\d)+)"]
   ua_filter_deny: ["(buzz/(\d)+.(\d)+)"]
```

### Go SDK

```go
import (
	"context"
	"net"

	"golang.ngrok.com/ngrok"
	"golang.ngrok.com/ngrok/config"
)

func listenUserAgentFIlter(ctx context.Context) net.Listener {
	listener, _ := ngrok.Listen(ctx,
		config.HTTPEndpoint(
			config.WithUserAgentFilter( []string{"(foo)/(\d)+.(\d)+"}, []string{"bar/(\d)+.(\d)+"}),
		),
		ngrok.WithAuthtokenFromEnv(),
	)
	return listener
}
```

## Behavior

### Rule Evaluation

On request, the User Agent Filter module will check the incoming `user-agent` header value against the list of defined allow and deny regular expression rules.

Requests with no `user-agent` header will be denied by deafult. If you wish to accept these you can add a allow rule for empty strings: `^$`

> Requests with multiple `user-agent` headers will only match the first User-Agent header.

Reviewer 3: Is there a distinction between `user-agent` and User-Agent? I feel like "Requests with multiple `user-agent` headers will only match the first header." is clear enough.

### Match Behavior

> Requests are allowed if they match an allow rule OR they match no deny rules. Requests matching deny rules are rejected with a 403 Forbidden error.

Reviewer 3: match an allow rule OR they match no deny rules --> match an `allow` rule OR they match no `deny` rules

| --------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **User Agent Filter Allow** | A set of regular expressions used to match User-Agents that will be allowed. |
| **User Agent Filter Deny**  | A set of regular expressions used to match User-Agents that will be denied,  |

### Upstream Headers {#upstream-headers}

This module does not add any upstream headers.

### Errors

| Code                                      | HTTP Status | Error                                                       |
| ----------------------------------------- | ----------- | ----------------------------------------------------------- |
| [ERR_NGROK_3211](/errors/err_ngrok_3211/) | `403`       | The server does not authorize requests from your user-agent |

### Events

When the User Agent Filter module is enabled, it populates the following
fields in the
[http_request_complete.v0](/events/reference/#http-request-complete) event:

| Fields                       |
| ---------------------------- |
| `user_agent_filter.decision` |

### Limits

This module is available on all plans.

## Try it out

> Run ngrok with User Agent Filter's allow and deny set to the following:

Reviewer 3: allow and deny --> `allow` and `deny`

# User Agent Filter

---

## Overview

With the User Agent Filter module, you can allow or deny traffic through regular expression-based rules that are matched against the incoming `User-Agent` header. The `User-Agent` header contains information about the requesting browser or application, including its name, version, and operating system.

Since rules are processed at the ngrok Cloud Edge, you can bolster your application’s security by blocking unwanted or unauthorized requests from known bots and malicious actors before it ever reaches your network.

## Quickstart

### Agent CLI

```bash
ngrok http 80 \
  --ua-filter-allow="(foo/(\d)+.(\d)+)","(bar/(\d)+.(\d)+)" \
  --ua-filter-deny="(buz/(\d)+.(\d)+)"
```

### Agent Configuration File

```yaml
tunnels:
  example:
    proto: http
    addr: 80
    ua_filter_allow: ["(foo/(\d)+.(\d)+)", "(bar/(\d)+.(\d)+)"]
    ua_filter_deny: ["(buzz/(\d)+.(\d)+)"]
```

> ### Go SDK

Reviewer: Can users use the `WithDeny` / `WithAllow` for go as well? I think we should also link the sdks from here.

> Here is an example using the [ngrok-library](link)

```go
import (
	"context"
	"net"

	"golang.ngrok.com/ngrok"
	"golang.ngrok.com/ngrok/config"
)

func listenUserAgentFIlter(ctx context.Context) net.Listener {
	listener, _ := ngrok.Listen(ctx,
		config.HTTPEndpoint(
			config.WithUserAgentFilter([]string{`(foo)/(\d)+.(\d)+`}, []string{`bar/(\d)+.(\d)+`}),
		),
		ngrok.WithAuthtokenFromEnv(),
	)
	return listener
}
```

### Rust SDK

```rust
use axum::{routing::get, Router};
use ngrok::prelude::*;
use std::error::Error;

#[tokio::main]
async fn main() -> Result<(), Box<dyn Error>> {
    let app = Router::new().route("/", get(|| async { "Hello from ngrok-rust!" }));

    let allow_pattern: Vec<&str> = vec!(
        r"bar",
    );
    let allow_ua: Vec<String> = allow_pattern.iter().map(|&s| s.to_string()).collect();
    let deny_pattern: Vec<&str> = vec!(
        r"foo",
    );

>     let deny_ua: Vec<String> = deny_pattern.iter().map(|&s| s.to_string()).collect();

Reviewer: Let's update this to the new format

### Rule Evaluation

On request, the User Agent Filter module will check the incoming `user-agent` header value against the list of defined allow and deny regular expression rules.

Requests with no `user-agent` header specified will still be matched against the list of defined rules. If you wish to reject these you can add a deny rule for empty strings: `^$`

> Requests with multiple `user-agent` header’s will be matched as a single value.

Reviewer 3: header's --> headers

### Match Behavior

> Requests are allowed if they match an allow rule OR they match no deny rules. On deny requests are rejected with a `403 Forbidden` error.

Reviewer 3: For the second sentence, consider rewording as "Requests matching deny rules are rejected with a `403 Forbidden` error" or "Denied requests are rejected with a `403 Forbidden` error".
